---
layout: post
title: "Embarking on a New Journey: My First Blog Post"
date: 2024-01-17 15:09:00
description: Documenting my exploration in the realms of projects, learning, and self-discovery.
tags: projects learning self-improvement
categories: diary
giscus_comments: true
featured: true
---

Greetings to everyone who has stumbled upon this page – welcome to my humble blog!

For those unfamiliar with me, I'm Karan Goel. Proudly of Indian origin, you can call me Karan, KG, or Ken – whichever resonates with you.

Now, you might be wondering, what's the cause for celebration? Why am I so thrilled? The reason is simple yet significant: this site and the post you're currently reading are officially published.

You may ask, "What's the big deal? The internet is flooded with countless blog posts." True, and you're right to wonder what sets mine apart. I'm just a software developer building a portfolio.

Indeed, I'm not reinventing the wheel. This blog may contain familiar elements found in many others, but I'm not here to be different. I'm here for myself – for self-expression.

As a software developer, I've always considered myself a procrastinator and a perfectionist. These traits often resulted in delayed plans and an inability to settle on anything. However, a recent revelation on New Year's Day changed my perspective.

I stumbled upon a LinkedIn post by a successful independent game developer friend, Nitin Verma, who shared valuable insights on achieving goals. [Read the post here](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/nitin-verma-a70356166_things-i-learned-about-achieving-goals-after-activity-7040347210957348865-T_ho/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop).

1. **Define Your Goals:** Clearly articulate what you want to achieve.
2. **Break Goals Into Steps:** Make them more manageable and less intimidating.
3. **Create a Plan:** Develop a detailed plan of action.
4. **Take Action:** Start working towards your goals immediately.
5. **Monitor Progress:** Celebrate small wins and learn from setbacks.
6. **Stay Focused and Motivated:** Keep your eye on the prize and persevere through challenges.
7. **Adjust Your Plan:** Be flexible and make changes if needed.
8. **Persevere:** Don't give up, every step brings you closer to your dreams.

This struck a chord with me. I realized that I have many software projects I want to complete, but my lack of focus and perseverance often left plans on the shelf.

Even this blog – a project planned for years – suffered from my indecision about the technology to use. Whether delving into WordPress and PHP, exploring Ghost on a server, or recently diving into Next.js, my inconsistency held me back. This blog is my commitment to change. I'll document my progress daily and strive to make it work.

Thank you for reading this – I'm unsure who will, but I genuinely appreciate it. Here's to the journey ahead! 🍺