---

layout: post  
title: Strategic Network Design  
date: 2024-07-04 18:00:01  
description: My Learning on Strategic Network 
tags: learning reflections computerscience network projects
categories: uow  
giscus_comments: false  
featured: false  
---

### My Learning from Strategic Network Design

1. **Networking Fundamentals**: Introduction to the basics of networking, including key concepts, protocols, and technologies essential for understanding network operations.

2. **Strategic Network Design and Requirements Analysis Concept**: Focuses on designing network infrastructures to meet specific business needs and analyzing requirements to ensure alignment with organizational goals.

3. **Flow Analysis**: Examines the flow of data within a network, including traffic patterns, bottlenecks, and optimization techniques to improve network efficiency.

4. **Network Architecture**: Covers the design and structure of network systems, including the layout of hardware components, network topologies, and integration strategies.

5. **Network Addressing and Routing**: Involves the assignment of IP addresses and the techniques used for routing data packets across networks, including static and dynamic routing protocols.

6. **Network Performance**: Focuses on evaluating and enhancing network performance through monitoring, analysis, and optimization of network resources and bandwidth.

7. **Network Management**: Deals with the administration and maintenance of network systems, including configuration, monitoring, and troubleshooting to ensure reliable network operations.

8. **Network Security Workshop**: Provides practical insights into securing networks, including threat analysis, security measures, and best practices for protecting network data and resources.

9. **Network Design Documentation**: Emphasizes the creation and maintenance of comprehensive documentation for network designs, including diagrams, configurations, and specifications.

10. **Advanced Networking Technologies**: Explores cutting-edge networking technologies and trends, including innovations and emerging practices in the field of networking.

### Overall Experience

If there’s one subject I wish I could retake, it would be this one. I barely passed with a 54%, just above the 50% passing mark.

Adding to the irony, I had prior experience as a network engineer before coming to Australia. I attribute my struggles to several factors:

**Underestimation**: Despite having practical knowledge, I underestimated the depth of the theoretical content and failed to appreciate the complexity of the subject matter.

**Overestimation**: I didn’t choose my group wisely and relied too heavily on the abilities of my teammates, assuming that being six months ahead in experience meant they would excel. This reliance led to a disorganized group project.

**Lack of Discipline and Overconfidence**: I was juggling four subjects in my first semester: Web Development, Python, Computer Vision, and Network Design. While I was familiar with most of these topics, I took Network Design too lightly. I skipped lectures, relied on lecture notes, and developed poor living habits, including staying up late.

**No Networking**: I realized my mistakes too late. I didn’t seek help or raise concerns when I needed to. Missing an assignment worth 10% and not addressing issues was a significant oversight.

In retrospect, I should have managed my time better, chosen my team more carefully, and taken a more disciplined approach to studying.

[Lectures](/assets/pdf/network/Network.zip)
[Project](/assets/pdf/network/Secure%20On-demand%20Health%20Services.pdf)
[PPT](/assets/pdf/network/SOHS.pdf)
[Essay](/assets/pdf/network/Automation%20in%20IT%20systems%20for%20Corporation.pdf)